# CS340-final-project
Client/Server Development with PyMongo &amp; Dash

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

    Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable requires a disciplined approach to programming. Adhering to best practices and developing good habits is    important, especially when working on open source applications or collaborating with a team of programmers. Using comments within the code to clarify functionality and purpose can be very helpful when deciphering someone else's work. In terms of adaptabilty, it is a good idea to implement reusable code that can serve as a foundation for various client-side applications to access database content. The advantage of working in this manner is a simpler approach for "glueing" the server-side and client-side, and therefore more likely to function properly and less likely to fail. Since the CRUD Python module implements reusable code it can easily be utilized by other web-applications in the future without having to modify its content. The basic CRUD operations apply to a broad spectrum of client-side uses, and maintain reliable access to the database. 


How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

    As a computer scientist, approaching problems must be done methodically. In a general sense, it is important to address the project modularly at all levels while maintaining focus on the key requirements from the client. A modular approach starts with addressing the server-side setup for the database, then designing the middle-ware module for secure communication between the base and middle levels. The last component is the client-side web application, which can only be properly implemented once the base and the middle-ware are constructed. While the design and layout of the web application are important, it is crucial for the functionality to be in place so that the application can server its purpose for the client. The main difference between this course and other courses is the multiple layers that were glued together for the final project. So far, previous courses have only focused on one layer (database classes, scripting classes, UI/UX classes, etc.). This is the first class that has required a full-stack approach and has truly helped put together a "big picture" of programming. This techniques and strategies learned in this course are essential for a full stack developmental approach.


 What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
    
    Computer scientists utilize digital technology to implement effective solutions for a wide variety of problems. This solutions significantly increase efficiency and can also address "user-friendly" concerns. Not everyone is tech savvy, and computer scientists can implement back-end solutions that address efficiency, while also developing front-end usability solutions for the client to easily interface with the back-end solutions. This is important in todays world where there is immense quantities of data being collected. Efficienty querying tools are needed for companies and individuals to navigate through the data and analyze it quickly and efficiently.
